Ki is, if not the White Lotus name for spiritual energy as used in "conventional" magic (see documentation on the magic practiced by The Wizard Corps), then very closely tied to it. Ki 'abilities' are based around the manipulation of the natural flows of Ki within the body and soul, and in the instance of more powerful abilities, the Ki of others or the universe itself.
The effect of this is that Ki abilities are very "fuel-efficient" so to speak. However, this efficiency is limited by the fact that a Ki ability must propagate from the user to the intended target.
A prime example of this is the Ki Surge. When one creates a Ki Surge, they adjust the way their Ki flows so that when they strike out with their body, their Ki radiates from it in the form of an energy wave. Depending on how exactly the practitioner adjusts their Ki flow, they can control the type and intensity of the energy, as well as fine-tuning its direction.
For an example of this in action, let's consider the act of lighting a candle. If a conventional mage (again: see documentation on the magic of The Wizard Corps) wants to light a candle, they can simply direct their energy to create a flame on the candle. In contrast, a Ki user must channel their Ki into some part of their body, and (assuming they use a Ki Surge) create a wave of energy that ignites the candle.
Other common uses of Ki are enhancement and healing, though the way they work seems to differ from Syntropomancy. Ki healing works by causing the body to heal faster and more effectively than it would naturally, boosting the repair of the damage done rather than undoing it. Enhancement using Ki techniques is incredibly common, allowing a practitioner to perform superhuman feats and prolonging the natural lifespan exponentially (the oldest recorded human Ki user is a current member of the Order of the White Lotus, at nearly a full millennium in age).
In terms of combat use, Ki abilities are weakest when attacking at range, being limited by the need to send the effect from the user to the target. Closer in, a sufficiently skilled Ki user can be incredibly dangerous, as being able to face an opponent hand-to-hand allows for the possibility of manipulating their opponent's Ki as well as their own. On the defensive side, such as guarding against magical attack or harmful energy discharges, a Ki user channels their Ki to redirect the harm in question in a way to render it ineffective. 
A sufficiently skilled Ki user can not only manipulate the flow of Ki in other living things as stated above, but also in the universe in general. In addition to using certain Ki abilities which are based on manipulating the target's Ki, this allows for effects to reach their destination as disturbances in the Ki of the intervening universe, which is far more efficient.
In addition to all of the things described above, as one learns to manipulate the flow of Ki, they also learn to perceive it. This can, with training, allow for things like a near-telepathic levels of empathy, a degree of perceptiveness that gives near perfect clarity, and rumor has it even true precognition.
