In terms of spiritual teachings, the Order of the White Lotus holds that the entire universe is steeped in metaphysical energy, which is referred to as Ki. To put it another way, the whole universe has life, and the whole universe has a soul.

Just as each distinct entity with a soul of its own is a part of this universe, those souls are a part of the soul of the universe. The divinities, the Source, all of those higher powers are larger and more powerful parts of the whole compared to ordinary people. Even those who are twisted, wicked people truly beyond redemption are a part of this, just as each of us has flaws. Much like we seek to master our own flaws, the universe seeks to master its flaws, which is the calling of good people to confront evil.

By improving ourselves, we enable the universe to do the same. By helping others improve themselves, we help the universe improve itself. The act of learning is the act of growing closer to the universe, and because we are a part of it, growing closer to the universe means growing closer to ourselves. This is as close to an act of worship (like songs of praise you might see in temples to the divine) as you will find within the teachings of the White Lotus, with the possible exception of teaching. Learning is something that no-one is too old to do, and anyone who truly and honestly capacity desires to learn and grow (and isn't a scourge on humanity beyond the capacity of the masters to pull out of the darkness in them) can join and learn. The temples and abbeys near urban areas actually make use of time-dilated subplanes to allow people to get in a full day's worth of training without giving up their lives outside the monastery beyond an hour or two a day.

Continuing with the comparison to divine religion, meditation is simultaneously a ritual of purification and a manner of communication much like prayer. When one stills truly themselves in mind and spirit, and lets their Ki flow freely without any impediment from their mind (desires, instincts, emotions, etc.), it cleanses and refreshes the soul, as well as restoring strength of spirit and allowing one to percieve the soul of the universe. This last effect, the perception of the soul of the universe, generally manifests itself in things like an increased confidence in the right path or an epiphany regarding some dilemma.

As for how the above teachings relate to the Ki abilities that monks of the White Lotus commonly learn, the Ki of the universe and all that is in it flows constantly; every event, thought, feeling and action causes ripples like wind on the surface of a pond. By meditating and practicing self-discipline, one can learn to deliberately cause and direct these ripples and disturbances, altering the flow of Ki in them and around them. Doing this in certain ways is what allows the usage of Ki abilities.