Though the Wizard Corps is a military and academic institution, its foundations are deeply rooted in spirituality.  Unlike most conventional religions, however, this does not focus around concrete entities such as gods, but around concepts, in particular those of Love and Life.  The origin of these, believed to be a sentient albeit non-sapient force known most commonly as "The Source," is difficult to describe as being anything other than what it is: the source of both the concepts of Love and Life, perhaps even of Existence, the origin point from whence all Spirit Energy flows.  What specifically the Source may be is a matter of debate, but one thing is certain: those who feel its presence are changed by the experience.  The Procedure by which Wizards are created was originally intended merely as an attempt to get a glimpse at the entity in question, its more common use merely a side-effect.

While gods tend to have portfolios for their followers - mandates of action and ritual, among other things - the Source cares little for anything other than seeing the spread and care of Love and Life.  The Wizard Corps has taken this to heart, and nearly everything done by both individual members or the organization as a whole holds a base in the idea of maintaining and improving the world for all.  The Corps offers aid at every opportunity, and will always be ready to provide, but this must be a decision made by the recipient - except in cases of undeniable dire need, the Corps' belief in Love extends to the concept that Love does not force itself on others, but can only be accepted willingly.  

As far as spreading influence, only recruitment is pursued to any degree.  Communities will occasionally see a small group of Corps personnel visit and offer educational opportunities and chances of magical development, and families with boys under around age ten often find the Wizard program in particular put forward.  The ideology itself is more a matter of personal discovery, something each Wizard arrives at through their own experiences and investigations, and as such tends to be something that is only ever discussed passively - a Wizard may describe the matter as part of an explanation, but no member of the Corps ever goes out attempting to convert others to this belief.
