At its core, Magic is the means by which the Love of the world as filtered through the Soul is put to controlled use.  The "resource" this can draw from depends on if the caster is Human or Mamono, and while Mamono can directly actualize their Mana as magical energy, the nature of Spirit Energy means Humans must first convert it to the volatile Vis before it may be put to effect.  Regardless of source, the general method of casting involves channelling energies through an appropriate pattern.  Making a pattern efficient enough to generate a desired effect without draining the caster to exhaustion or worse requires careful calculations known as Commjer, the details of which are a matter of personal study due to how they function per individual.

While Mamono are able to instinctively use Magic by nature of their Mana, this tends to be limited to specialized effects, and as a general rule must seek education on the matter just as Humans do.  Various methods of teaching this use exist; the most widely-taught systems are collectively known as the Schools of Magic, and relate individually to specific styles of magical effect.  The Wizard Corps in particular uses this method for its own academies.  The Schools have changed little over centuries, with only one new form arising in recent times bringing the total Schools to six.  

Algorithmancy, the newest School, stands out as being one of the most difficult - not for the cost of casting, but for how difficult the calculations are.  Based on AI/Automaton instinctive casting, Algorithmancy is almost entirely a matter of Commjer maths, and as such only those with similar computative capabilities have even a hope of managing this School.  However, it also proves to be unique in that it has no particular specialization, but enhances whatever School it is used in conjunction with.

Elementarism, the oldest School, was originally taught by Elementals to prospective mages in return for an unspecified boon, although the specific naming of the School may have something to do with it as modern Elementals - their Guild in particular - insist on the term's careful spelling to an almost zealous degree.  Elementarist patterns specialize in the manipulation of mundane energies such as light and heat, especially with regards to the traditional "four elements" concept.  Creation of "heat beams" to ignite a candle, for example, is an option - but an exceptionally wasteful one.  Instead, this manipulation is direct, a case of setting a state rather than adding or subtracting to reach the state.

Psionomania is a bit of an odd School.  Unlike others which act to change the world in some way, Psionomania acts to change perception, among other things, an almost strictly mentally-focused School.  It is the basis of Scrying, of memory modification, of false sensory modification, and of mind control.  Confusingly, with the appropriate application one can use Psionomania to alter someone's perception of reality to the extent that reality starts falling in line with the new perception; note, of course, that this is beyond the scope of anyone without both absurd energy stores and impeccable Commjer skill.  Its most common use ends up being, amusingly, stage magic.

Realitwisting, by comparison, is a devastatingly powerful School, entirely focused on the concept that "the world that is, is not what it could be, and what could be, should be."  While Elementarism may change the energies in a substance, Realitwisting changes the substance itself - and the world around it besides.  Uses for the School are near-limitless; the more common effects involve building and modifying structures, teleportation, portal creation, and access to Subplanes.  The last of these allows for some wonders otherwise truly impossible, for this is the means by which a caster accesses bubbles in the foam of reality containing portions of What Could Be But Is Not...and being able to bring that into active reality without consequence.  The main restriction on doing so lies with the individual's creativity and magical capacity, the former allowing them to "see" the potentialities, the latter allowing them to "grasp" and bring their chosen Subplane with reach.

Syntropomancy can be confused for simple healing magic, for that is the most common use.  Its true potential lies within its nature as a true "undo" function built into the world.  There are hard limits to what can be undone by the school; notably, it cannot undo damage to the soul, and it cannot undo damage caused before the caster's conception.  What's more, a basic understanding of what's being repaired must be in possession for any worthwhile effect.  Beyond this, a dedicated Syntropomancer is effectively able to heal anything, whether animal, vegetable, or mineral.  The school finds best use in conjunction with Realitwisting, where change can be caused and undone as needed until the desired effect is achieved; for instance, with this combination of schools a number of enhancements can be made to the body allowing for some truly amazing capabilities in otherwise-mundane individuals, such as true sensory modification, increased durability, and boosted strength.  Technically speaking those who practice this combination of the Schools are truly immortal, denying themselves the aging process entirely.

Warlocksmithing stands truly unique from all other Schools in that it requires the direct rejection of Love as a force.  Its fundamental focus is destruction and nothing more.  Few ever take to learning it, and at time of writing exactly three exist in the world who have been willing to dedicate themselves to the School.  All of them regret the choice.  Further discussion on the matter is beyond the purview of this document - the details are not classified in the slightest, but cannot be truly explained in this medium.  Only the spoken word can properly express the concepts carried within.

It must be noted that Magic is very much alive, for its source is Love and Life, and as such functions to a different degree of effectiveness per caster.  Mindset has an immense impact on this; for example, one whose deepest desire is to heal with be more competent in this endeavour and far less capable at causing harm.  For the most part, this is a matter of the unthinking mind, and cannot be simply overridden by forcing one's thoughts to bear upon a concept.
