The Wizard Corps is, in parts, a military and an array of academies.  These feed into one another, building upon the works found within and providing them for the world (1).

The academies, collectively known simply as the Academy, are magical schools throughout the world whose primary focus lies not with a standard education, but a good one, professors given free reign to decide their curriculum so long as students learn and learn well.  Individual schools are officially known only by number, and publicly present whatever name they see fit, whether serious, relevant to current events, or even merely a joke.  An example of this can be found in W.I.Z.Tek, whose moniker is completely contrary to its thorough lack of technology.  Staffed by a variety of Humans and Mamono alike, the schools can easily seem eclectic to the point of eccentric, but it is this lack of stricture which provides students the chance for otherwise unprecedented growth.  Generally there are two main tracks for the academies; most enter purely for the chance to learn, and do so on whatever time is available, while the rest are dedicated to the Wizard track as part of the Procedure (1).  For the most part the Academy teaches from the various Magical Schools, semi-standardized systems by which certain concepts can be put to practice through magic (2).

Teaching performed at the Academy is for the benefit of the student and the professor, and all the colleges in its purview double as research facilities for the purposes of expanding the knowledge of Magic and the world as a whole.  For the most part this is an expected feature of the university setting, but the military connection renders all forms of funding concern a non-issue, and as a result investigations into what is and is not possible are common sights.

The military branch formed by the eponymous Corps, drawing primarily from the Academy, is almost entirely composed of Wizards.  There are a number of divisions within the Corps, with the most notable being the Medical, Intel, and Infil sections.  Members of the Med division in particular fulfill both expected emergency relief duties while simultaenously serving as the primary combat units of the Corps.  Soldiers can expect to be deployed in warzones and wildfires alike, rebuilding homes and curing the infirm as often as working to shut down conflicts.


(1) - See accompanying document "Philosophy."
(2) - See accompanying document "The Procedure."
(3) - See accompanying document "Schools of Magic."
