Starting roughly around age ten, a prospective Wizard accepts the offer to go to the academy.  This leads to being in a schooling environment for ten years, learning the basic maths needed for Commjer,  the theory behind the various magic schools, and the concept of how Love ties into all of it.  Alongside this is the standard education - a secondary language, some extracurriculars, that sort of thing.  Students are arranged into groups and assigned a team leader from the faculty; the system is military-funded and every student goes through appropriate training as well as an expectation of service in times of conflict.  These team leaders, usually old, married Mamono, act as both military-style disciplinarians and kind caretakers whom the Wizard Novices grow to trust.

Then come seven years of putting to practice what was learned in theory, nearly entirely spent traveling between rural villages.  This doubles as active duty, and more often than not squads out on this seven-year tour will find themselves called to task, whether for service in working to swiftly end conflict, attempting to cure illness, rebuilding after some disaster, or worse, possibly even a combination of the lot depending on circumstances.  In the meantime, the varied environments provide practical experience in irregular situations, allowing for unconventional and highly memorable magical practice.  This is also a chance to see the world and understand the value found in all people, the Love which all Life deserves, and it's not uncommon for a Wizard Journeyman squad to be involved in a drinking party, especially the occasional Bacchanalia hosted by Satyrs and their families.

Afterward comes three years during which all forms of Love are denied through near-constant isolation, true solitude from everyone on a metaphysical level.  The effect this has on the soul is why the process is so difficult, as the soul wants Love, and pushes the desire of it at all points.  This lack of any form of Love puts wear on the Soul, weakening its moorings and providing the circumstances necessary for the final stage.  Unfortunately, this also puts the Wizard Adept in a state wherein Alping is a likely event, and with the effects on the mind from true isolation, the change tends to go over poorly at best.  Recent developments have made it so this may no longer be a hazard, due to a newly-made system by which the individual soon to Alp transforms into a form matching the Mamono their soul is most compatible with becoming, minimizing - if not eliminating - mental damage.

The final stage of the Procedure involves the Wizard-to-be laying upon a dais and willingly allowing their squad leader to rip out the Wizard's soul, tear it nearly apart, and force it back into place, an action only possible due to the recent lack of Love and the trust built between the two.  This event causes the Source of Love to finally reject the student's attempts at isolation and rush to affect what repairs it can.  It's not smart, though; it goes about forcing the soul itself to grow into filling the wounds, leaving behind tears through which spiritual energies leak - and in the attempt to fix this secondary wound, the Source of Love simply calls for a constant flow of energies into the soul.

Ultimately, this does have effects on the mind of the Wizard.  The support system of the academy attempts to mitigate this, hence a mandatory year of intensive psychological therapy and guaranteed on-demand sessions for life, as well as a deep sense of family.  It also does result in graduates becoming more than a little "love crazy," and a fairly sure marker of a Wizard is our tendency to reference the word.  While not quite religious, referencing Love and the Source has a habit of acting in place of others' use of their own gods' names(1).



(1) See accompanying document "Philosophy."
